= DeviseInvitable

It adds a module to Devise[http://github.com/plataformatec/devise] that allow authenticated resources to send invitations by email to others. Invited resources accept an invitation by setting their password.

== Installation for Rails ~> 3.0.0 and Devise ~> 1.1.2

This fork[http://github.com/rymai/devise_invitable] of DeviseInvitable only supports Rails ~> 3.0.0 and Devise ~> 1.1.2
Also, it is not distributed on RubyGems[http://rubygems.org], so you'll need to require this gem with the <tt>:git</tt> option of bundler in your Gemfile:

  gem "devise",           "~> 1.1.2"
  gem "devise_invitable", :git => "git://github.com/rymai/devise_invitable.git"

=== Automatic installation

After you install DeviseInvitable and add it to your Gemfile, you need to run the generator:

  rails generate devise_invitable:install

The generator will inject DeviseInvitable’s configuration options and you should take a look at it. When you are done, you are ready to add DeviseInvitable to any of your Devise models using the generator:

  rails generate devise_invitable MODEL

Replace MODEL by the class name you want to add DeviseInvitable, like User, Admin, etc. This will add the :invitable flag to your model's Devise modules. The generator will also create a migration file (if your ORM support them). Continue reading this file to understand exactly what the generator produces and how to use it.

=== Manual installation

Follow the walkthrough for Devise and after it's done, follow this walkthrough.

Add :invitable to the Devise line in your model (we’re assuming here you already have a User model with some Devise modules):

  class User < ActiveRecord::Base
    devise :database_authenticatable, :confirmable, :invitable
  end

Add t.invitable to your Devise model migration:

  create_table :users do
    ...
    t.invitable
    ...
  end
  add_index :users, :invitation_token

or for a model that is already created, define a migration to add DeviseInvitable to your model:

  change_table :users do |t|
    t.string   :invitation_token, :limit => 20
    t.datetime :invitation_sent_at
    t.index    :invitation_token
  end

  # Allow null encrypted_password and password_salt
  change_column :users, :encrypted_password, :string, :null => true
  change_column :users, :password_salt,      :string, :null => true

DeviseInvitable doesn't use _attr_accessible_ or _attr_protected_, so be sure to define attributes as accessible or protected in your model.

== Example

If you don't have the time to read more, or if you'd like to see how to integrate DeviseInvitable to an application, check the following example: {example to come soon...}[http://github.com/rymai/]

== Model configuration

DeviseInvitable adds two configuration options:

  * invite_for         => The validity duration for an invitation. Default is 0, which means invitations doesn't expire.
  * validate_on_invite => Flag that can force the validation of the invited record on invitation. Default to false.

You can set those configuration options in the Devise initializer as follow:

  # ==> Configuration for :invitable
  # Time interval where the invitation token is valid.
  # If invite_for is 0 or nil, the invitation will never expire.
  # Default: 0
  # config.invite_for = 2.weeks

  # Flag that force a record to be valid before being actually invited.
  # Default: false
  # config.validate_on_invite = true

or directly as parameters to the <tt>devise</tt> method inside your Devise models:

  devise :database_authenticatable, :confirmable, :invitable, :invite_for => 2.weeks

For details, see <tt>config/initializer/devise.rb</tt> (after you invoked the "devise_invitable:install" generator described above).

== Configuring views

All the views are packaged inside the gem. If you'd like to customize the views, invoke the following generator and it will copy all the views to your application:

  rails generate devise_invitable:views

You can also use the generator to generate scoped views:

  rails generate devise_invitable:views users

Please refer to {Devise's README}[http://github.com/plataformatec/devise] for more information about views.

== Usage

=== Send an invitation

To send an invitation to a user, use the <tt>invite</tt> class method. You must set <tt>email</tt> in the parameters hash:
You can also include other attributes in the hash. By default, the record will not be validated, see the Model configuration above if you want to validate the records before sending an invitation.

  User.invite(:email => "new_user@example.com", :name => "John Doe") # => an invitation email will be sent to new_user@example.com

You can also use the <tt>invite</tt> instance method as follow:

  User.new(:email => "new_user@example.com", :name => "John Doe").invite # => an invitation email will be sent to new_user@example.com
  User.find_by_invitation_token("abc123").invite                         # => an new invitation email will be sent to this user, the generated token will be different

=== Accept an invitation

To accept an invitation with a token use the <tt>accept_invitation</tt> class method. You must set <tt>invitation_token</tt> in the parameters hash.
You can include other attributes in the hash (as in the <tt>update_attributes</tt> method for example).

  User.accept_invitation(:invitation_token => params[:invitation_token], :password => 'abc123')

You can also use the <tt>accept_invitation</tt> instance method as follow:

  invited_user = User.invite(:email => "new_user@example.com")
  invited_user.password = '123456'
  invited_user.accept_invitation

== Integration in a Rails application

Since the invitations controller take care of all the invite/accept invitation process, in most cases you wouldn't call the <tt>invite</tt> and <tt>accept_invitation</tt> methods directly.
Instead, in your views, put a link to <tt>new_user_invitation_path</tt> or <tt>new_invitation_path(:user)</tt> or even <tt>/users/invitation/new</tt> to prepare and send an invitation.
This email includes a link to accept the invitation like <tt>/users/invitation/accept?invitation_token=abcd123</tt>.

== Controller filter

InvitationsController adds <tt>authenticate_inviter!</tt> filter to restrict who can send invitations.
You can override this method to suit your needs.

Default behavior requires authentication of the same resource. For example, if your model User is <tt>:invitable</tt>, it will allow all authenticated users to send invitations to other users.

In a more probable scenario you would have a User model which is configured as invitable and an Admin model which is not.
You would like to allow only admins to send invitations. To do so, simply overwrite the authenticate_inviter! method as follow:

  module DeviseInvitable::Controllers::Helpers
  protected
    def authenticate_inviter!
      authenticate_admin!
    end
  end

== I18n

DeviseInvitable uses flash messages with I18n with the flash keys <tt>:send_instructions</tt> and <tt>:updated</tt>. To customize your app, you can modify the generated locale file:

  en:
    devise:
      invitations:
        send_instructions: 'An email with instructions about how to set the password has been sent.'
        updated: 'Your password was set successfully. You are now signed in.'

You can also create distinct messages based on the resource you've configured using the singular name given in routes:

  en:
    devise:
      invitations:
        user:
          send_instructions: 'A new user invitation has been sent.'
          updated: 'Welcome on board! You are now signed in.'

The DeviseInvitable mailer uses the Devise pattern to create subject messages:

  en:
    devise:
      mailer:
        invitation_instructions:
          subject: 'You got an invitation!'
          user_subject: 'You got an user invitation!'

Take a look at the generated locale file (in <tt>config/locales/devise_invitable.en.yml</tt>) to check all available messages.

== Other ORMs

DeviseInvitable supports ActiveRecord and Mongoid, like Devise.

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add specs for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with Rakefile, version, or changelog. (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Maintainer of this fork

* Rémy Coutable (http://github.com/rymai)

Based on Sergio Cambra's gem: http://github.com/scambra/devise_invitable

== Contributors

Check them all at: http://github.com/rymai/devise_invitable/contributors

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Rémy Coutable. See LICENSE for details.
